Update and Reorg Enable Data Lineage for External Systems (#1473)
astronomer/docs: astro/set-up-data-lineage.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Integrate OpenLineage'
title: "Integrate OpenLineage with external systems"
id: set-up-data-lineage
description: Configure your external systems to emit OpenLineage data to Astro.
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

[Data lineage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_lineage) is the concept of tracking data from its origin to wherever it is consumed downstream as it flows through a data pipeline. This includes connections between datasets and tables in a database as well as rich metadata about the tasks that create and transform data. You can observe data lineage to trace the history of a dataset, troubleshoot run failures, manage personally identifiable information (PII), and ensure compliance with data regulations.

> All Astro Deployments use the [OpenLineage Airflow library](https://openlineage.io/integration/apache-airflow/) (`openlineage-airflow`) to gather lineage data. The OpenLineage Airflow library is installed on [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To store lineage data that is emitted from any system, a lineage backend is required. Astro Deployments use [OpenLineage](https://openlineage.io/integration/apache-airflow/) (`openlineage-airflow`) as a backend for gathering lineage data. The OpenLineage Airflow library is installed on [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) by default.
```

> There are two ways to emit lineage data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to emit lineage data to Astro:
```

- Run a task on Astro with a supported Airflow operator. These operators use extractors to automatically emit lineage data and don’t require additional configuration. See [Supported Airflow operators](data-lineage-support-and-compatibility.md#supported-airflow-operators).
- Integrate OpenLineage with an external service, such as dbt or Apache Spark, to emit data lineage outside of an Airflow DAG or task. This might require additional configuration.

> The data lineage graph in the Cloud UI shows lineage data that is emitted with both methods, including tasks or jobs that are not run on Astro. This graph can provide context to your data before, during, and after it reaches your Deployment. See [View data lineage](data-lineage.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data lineage graph in the Cloud UI shows lineage data that is emitted with both methods, including jobs that are not run on the Astro data plane. This graph can provide context to your data before, during, and after it reaches your Deployment. See [View data lineage](data-lineage.md).
```

> ## Integrate Astro and OpenLineage with external systems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integrate Astro's lineage backend with external systems
```

To store lineage data that is emitted from any system, a lineage backend is required. If you're an Astro customer, use Astro as a lineage backend instead of configuring a custom solution with a tool such as [Marquez](https://marquezproject.github.io/marquez/). To emit lineage data from Airflow tasks that run on Astro, Astro is automatically set as the lineage backend and no additional configuration is required.

> To emit lineage data from an Airflow task that runs outside of Astro or from an external system that does not interact with Airflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To emit lineage data from an Airflow task that runs outside of Astro or from an external system that does not interact with Airflow:
```

> - Retrieve an OpenLineage API key from Astro. There is only one API key for each Organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retrieve your Organization OpenLineage API key from the Cloud UI. See [Retrieve an OpenLineage API key](#retrieve-an-openlineage-api-key).
```

> - Specify your OpenLineage API key in the external system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specify your OpenLineage API key in the external system. See the following integration guides for specific instructions.
```

> - Set Astro as your OpenLineage backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is not a step that users have to take.

     .getOrCreate()                                             # Astronomer recommends using a meaningful namespace such as `spark-dev` or `spark-prod`.
   ```

### Verify

To confirm that your setup is successful, run a Spark job after you save your configuration. After you run this model, open the **Lineage** tab in the Cloud UI and go to the **Runs** page. Your recent Spark job run appears in the table of most recent runs.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Integrate with Snowflake 

This guide outlines how to set up lineage collection for Snowflake.

## Setup

Like other [supported Airflow operators](data-lineage-support-and-compatibility.md#supported-airflow-operators), the [SnowflakeOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/snowflake/modules/snowflakeoperator) has full data lineage support and capabilities by default. As long as you connect to Snowflake through an Airflow connection, any task using the SnowflakeOperator emits lineage data about the Snowflake tables it queries.

### Verify 

After you run a DAG with the SnowflakeOperator, open the **Lineage** tab in the Cloud UI and go to the **Graph** page. The task using the SnowflakeOperator should appear as a run connected to a dataset. 

Click the dataset to view:

- The time that Snowflake was accessed.
- Tables that were accessed by upstream/ downstream tasks.
- The name and description for each column in the dataset.
- Data quality checks for the accessed tables. Data quality checks require integrating Great Expectations with OpenLineage and Airflow. See [Integrate with Great Expectations](#integrate-with-great-expectations) and [Orchestrate Great Expectations with Airflow](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-great-expectations#docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback).
